When we think of computer vision's role in AI,
we often focus on smart object and behavior recognition.
We've already talked about the self-driving car example,
in which computer vision is used to recognize cars and
pedestrians and also recognize their behavior,
like whether they're moving fast or slow or even moving erratically.
But there's a plethora of other far-reaching uses that
one wouldn't necessarily think of when talking about computer vision.
It's used in state-of-the-art medical technology
to analyze medical images and identify points of interest.
An AI system can even learn to recognize cancerous tissue and help with
early detection and diagnostics by
analyzing data about cancer and images of cancer cells.
On a more mundane level,
many of us have phones that use computer vision on a daily basis.
Computer vision is used to identify and categorize personal images and video.
My phone recognizes me when I take
a selfie and even knows that some of my friends faces look like.
Some systems are smart enough to recognize
behavior and images and even caption it correctly.
So, AI systems can learn to recognize a multitude of objects and
behaviors using computer vision and by analyzing masses of images or video data.
We've already spoken of AI systems using computer vision in
a similar manner to the human visual system to recognize visual surroundings,
but there's another essential use that humans have for visual data.
We use it to gauge the emotional state of our fellow humans.
That is, vision not only let's us recognize objects,
but when we're communicating with another person,
we use vision to look at a person's face and body language
to help us identify their mental and emotional states.
As we'll see next, AI systems can learn to do this too.